hey guys we don't have my usual
microphone because we're traveling we're
living out of just a couple of backpacks
at the moment going from hotel to hotel
we didn't expect to be traveling this
long were exhausted we're tired tonight
but you know I really wanted to make a
video about this for a while and I feel
like if I don't do it tonight I won't
ever get around to it this is one of
many different reasons why I think the
McDowell perspective is wrong but it's
posed in a little bit of a moderate way
and I know that some people viewing this
video will be big tower supporters and I
think they'll hear the concession the
start of the video and we'll see if
there's a bit of a point I did prep for
this video I did research to this video
I both looked into what you could find
in terms of an official definition of
McDowell you know said I'm not just
basing my opinion on what some people
say on the internet but is always in
there we deal with that as vegans will
some vegans say all right come on you
know what's the definition of veganism
and what's settled this movement was
peripheral you know I checked out
I guess the kind of official reddit or
most most read reddit for that and just
now you know I put this acronym so migt
I was like mgt o/w I put that into
YouTube and then I set the search
criteria for the last 24 hours and there
were about 300 videos uploaded with that
acronym Wow and I think all of them were
supporters not to tractors to that
movement
so it is currently a big woman and the
the one concession I really want to make
for these guys is I joked with you about
this the other day but the joke the joke
has teeth joke as a point you know I
said one part of what's going on for
these guys is the same thing you'll hear
in the lyrics for many rap songs but but
the particular example gave was bust a
move
but young MC it was a mainstream
Radiohead song and you know we laughed
about it I said to my girlfriend losses
look have you ever actually listened to
lyrics oh that's right so you go through
it a lot of what the MiG tell men are
complaining about a reference to women
it's been in rap lyrics for 30 years
it's probably
country music for a hundred years you
know what I mean on the level of a
complaint of a heartbroken man or a man
who feels a woman has ripped him off or
left him broken or misled or spent his
money it ain't new you know and on that
level also it's not gonna disappear the
difference is I mean I think in terms of
rap artists pretty much all of them
responded to that problem or challenge
or heartbreak by just throwing
themselves into seducing women even more
you know what I mean like if you were
unlucky at love go back at the gambling
table and play to win you know whatever
was you know I think most men respond to
that sense of frustration or
disappointment but wanting to rise to
the challenge and do better or find a
better woman or whatever it is what's
different about big towel it's exactly
that they try to sort of ossify this
into a permanent position of political
protest but even here I want to give one
more concession when I was doing the
research for this video one of the most
mature statements I've ever seen from
someone inside this movement it began by
saying on the Internet
look the vast majority of people who are
in McDowell today will in the future
settle down and be in normal
relationships will get married and have
kids I thought you know what and this
apparently wasn't controversialist at
what you know what that shows exactly
the kind of maturity that I think most
critics of this movement assume these
guys lack you know like as if this were
they used that they use term that talk
about monasticism and celibacy and monk
mode talking about it seeing in monk
mode that's the language users of this
movement um learning so much really it
was like a couple months ago you
you mentioned somebody on YouTube yeah
you're involved with big town whatever
you don't want to know yeah
okay but I mean like living in celibacy
is hard to justify in terms of just even
like the Christian faith you guys may
not have heard about this the wars
between Catholicism and Protestantism
but it doesn't even make sense for a
Christian priest to be celibate that was
debated and wars were fought over it
etc the role of celibacy even within
that kind of religion the role of
celibacy within Buddhism if you're gonna
be a Buddhist monk again pardon but why
this city ology would would justify
permanent celibacy it's interesting for
me to see that some guys within it
already see the cracks and that or see
that as a phase of your life that you're
that should use mine okay so that's all
I can do for concessions and I think
some people get the point that I'm not
presenting this video from a state of
total hostility but I see you know as as
offensive and politically inapt as this
movement may be because it is that's
what most people know about it is just
frankly what what can be called and and
should be called misogyny of a lot of
statements well a lot of people see that
in rap music - wasn't don't hang
yourself with a celibate robe that is
true that's in there so guys if you
don't know the song bust a move by young
MC you shouldn't really listen to it
it's what is it it's four minutes and 28
seconds well spent working one in this
movement or any creative mode but look
whether or not Rattlers are misogynist
and whether or not this movement is
primarily misogynist or incidentally
misogynist regardless this is part of
this is the soro of the human experience
that's going to come up again and again
the same way there have always been jazz
songs and blues songs about heartbroken
women part of this is response of
heartbroken men the question is where do
they go from there what I want to object
to in this video specifically and it
relates to my own current experience
well past experience also is the
specific idea that committed
relationships that monogamous
relationships are a swindle or a scam
for the man that the man is being conned
and deceived that somehow all of Western
society is on
most like a conspiracy to take men's
money and independence away from them
and you know even I remember when I was
single think it was certain time or life
I often felt the opposite so right now
we're checking into one hotel after
another you know I can remember
traveling in Thailand and Laos not a
single and the hotel rooms would cost
the same amount if you were alone or in
a couple and you think this is such a
waste of paying the same about tell them
to be here alone and that could be here
with my girlfriend you know what times
nadigar or you know or it could be your
with a girlfriend if I had to go for now
and I'm between girlfriends or whatever
I can remember thinking that at the time
you know right now in this relationship
I am paying the rent on the apartment
for both of us
so I'm paying a hundred percent it's not
50/50 it's not I'm paying a high percent
right if I were single I would be paying
exactly the same amount of rent for
exactly the same apartment and living
there alone
now having microform illicit live with
me I think it increases the cost of my
water bill right no no no the water is
included with the apartment so the
electricity bill probably having her
around I'll burn more electricity but I
mean it really comes down to pennies so
it's just funny like I can remember
really thinking this was I was single
and I think you know I remember reading
a letter to the editor of the newspaper
once complaining with us it was someone
trying to book those package holidays or
you know there's like a cruise ship and
then a hotel in the Caribbean and they
were saying it costs just as much if
you're single as if you're a couple it's
not fair for single people right I think
that we're trying to start a
class-action lawsuit or something like
you don't know these guys are
complaining that all society is a
swindle kind of set up to to scam you if
you commit to a relationship I think a
lot of people look at those basic
economic facts and feel the opposite
that all of society is set up to reward
you for being married instead of to
reward you for being in a couple yeah
it's access to
yeah sure tax but it's
to in effect cut your rent in half like
if Melissa contributed nothing positive
to my life we you know in a sense
so what I've got to pay exactly the same
amount of rent to live in exactly the
same apartment anyway and I mean to
actually both this hotel not all hotels
but with this hotel I would pay exactly
the same amount this hotel room and this
way I can share it with somebody now if
you're in a relationship it's very
likely the woman in your life
contributes a lot you know she isn't
just dead weight in myriad ways and I
don't have to get into that in this in
this video
but presumably you're getting something
out of this relationship you know I
think a lot of these guys and again this
is after after doing some research what
they feel deprived of is the freedom to
pursue what they're really passionate
about in life and I read one article
again but one of these may tell guys and
he was arguing he said look it's really
important to remember what your passion
on life
it could be humanitarian work in Africa
so you can see this that's an example
that appeals to me it's not necessarily
you having a fancy car or something it's
it's whatever you're you're passionate
about but it's funny I think just in
dealing with these one or two planks
their platform you see already the
undoing of this philosophy and why it
will end with most of these guys getting
married and secondly down that because
if they come to a crisis in their lives
well for whatever reason they feel
swindled by a woman they feel they've
wasted their time and their money with a
woman they feel they've been paying a
woman's rent for no reason and then they
come to this crisis where they say okay
now they have to prioritize what they're
really passionate about and it may be
doing humanitarian work in Africa then
the next thing they're going to discover
as inevitably as a can of tomato sauce
rolling down a staircase is that as soon
as they're doing that they're meeting
the women who share those passions with
them or the women who want to support
them in that pursuit of that passion and
who can play a positive role in their
lives sharing that apartment or sharing
that at the arm
that's I think the ultimate irony or the
the silver lining in the in the crowd
pardon me the silver lining in the cloud
um so ultimately that whole philosophy I
think becomes a farce you know I don't
really I think most people look at this
movement they feel a mixture of contempt
and pity for the guys who really are
true believers but there are some
philosophies that I think do not need to
be refuted because they contain within
themselves entirely the seeds of their
own refutation and this is one of them
in the same way that I think rap music
or blues music or jazz music that's just
expressing this kind of disappointment
and grief or what-have-you
it doesn't need to be refuted you don't
need to write a letter to the editor or
what have you I think that that's the
real emotional weight of this and all
the rest of it the economic arguments
and the kind of faux sociological
anthropological arguments and the
political values tacked onto it
once these guys move past this crisis in
their lives all of that is gonna fall
apart and for that reason it's it's very
fundamentally different from feminism
it's not seeking political change it's
seeking personal change and when they
realized just how attainable that
personal change is I'd like to think a
lot of the hostility and over the top
offensive antics will disappear from
internet discourse